Your ADP payroll services FAQs answered 

What is payroll and how does it work? 

Payroll can be anything from paying your employees and calculating taxes and deductions, to filing necessary taxes and ensuring compliance obligations are met. Payroll can either be carried out in-house or entrusted to a reputable provider like ADP. If you decide to outsource your payroll, you can opt for partially or fully managed models, depending on your business size and how much control you want to keep. 

What do payroll services do? 

Payroll providers carry out a range of services for companies who don’t wish to run an in-house payroll. These include calculating employees’ pay, making any necessary deductions such as EPF contributions and third payments. 

What are payroll managed services? 

If you choose as a business to hand over every payroll process to a trusted outsourced provider like ADP, this is known as payroll managed services. This option ensures your HR, finance and admin teams are freed up from time-consuming work and helps you to deliver accurate, timely and compliant payroll. 

Who needs payroll services? 

Is your business struggling with running in-house payroll? Can’t afford the time or expense to recruit, train and retain accounting or HR professionals? You could benefit from outsourced payroll services. You’ll save the costs of an in-house department, and avoid the complexity of reporting to government authorities. Plus, say goodbye to manual errors and potential fines for missing compliance deadlines. 

Why ask ADP to process payroll for me? 

Having ADP to manage your payroll runs gives you more time to focus on higher-value tasks, including business strategy, hiring and retaining the right people, and driving employee development and engagement. Not only will managed payroll save you time, it will give you peace of mind in this increasingly complex world. In addition, we take your data protection extremely seriously, which is why we add an extra level of governance to your employee data. 

What are the different payroll services provided by ADP? 

ADP offers a processing service with a hosted platform for our clients to manage data entry; or a managed service offering online payroll services, solutions and software for businesses of all sizes. Our cloud payroll solutions can integrate with time and attendance tracking. Plus, we also automatically calculate deductions for taxes and EPF contributions, providing expert support to help make sure you stay compliant with all applicable rules and regulations. 

Does ADP have online payroll tools or a mobile platform for employees? 

ADP Employee Self-Service portal gives employees access to their payroll information and benefits, no matter where they are. Employees can complete a variety of tasks, such as view their payslips and manage their leaves. 

 
